# GR4553-Group-4
This project is a case study of the "Halloween Floods" in Austin, Texas October 31, 2013. The codes provided depict the synoptic setup, display the radar data from the day of the event as well as METAR station data for hourly rainfall in several stations around the Austin area and water levels for three local rivers/creeks in the Austin area. 

The radar codes (stored in the files TX Radar 1204 AM CDT 1031 code.py, KEWX - AUSTIN S ANT, TX Radar 602 AM CDT 1031 code.py, KEWX - AUSTIN S ANT, TX Radar 1203 PM 1031 code.py, KEWX - AUSTIN S ANT, and KEWX - AUSTIN S ANT, TX Radar 600 PM CDT 1031 code.py) provide radar base reflectivity plots for the KEWX National Weather Service Doppler Radar in New Braunfels, Texas which serves the Austin and San Antonio area. The code is for the times 12:04 AM, 6:02 AM, 12:03 PM, and 6:00 PM CDT on October 31 2013. The data files for the radar data are provided here: https://noaa-nexrad-level2.s3.amazonaws.com/2013/10/31/KEWX/KEWX20131031_000403_V06.gz, https://noaa-nexrad-level2.s3.amazonaws.com/2013/10/31/KEWX/KEWX20131031_060235_V06.gz, https://noaa-nexrad-level2.s3.amazonaws.com/2013/10/31/KEWX/KEWX20131031_120325_V06.gz, https://noaa-nexrad-level2.s3.amazonaws.com/2013/10/31/KEWX/KEWX20131031_180016_V06.gz.

The water levels codes (stored in the files Colorado River Levels code.py, Walnut Creek Water Levels code.py, and Williamson Creek Levels code.py) plot the water levels (in feet) over the course of the day on October 31, 2013 using a meteorogram. The Y-axis variable is the water levels, while the X-axis variable is time (CDT using the 24-hour clock). The data was obtained from the United States Geographical Survey's National Water Dashboard. Three monitoring stations were used: the Colorado River at Austin, TX site, the Walnut Creek at Webberville Road site, and the Willimson Creek at Jimmy Clay Road site. All of these stations are near or in the Austin, Texas area.
